  Weight Gain Meal Plan: An Easy 7-Day Template To Follow    Go to the home page Skip to navigation Skip to content Go to sitemap This site requires you to update your browser. Your browsing experience may be affected by not having the most up to date version.Please visit http://www.microsoft.com/windows/ie/ to upgrade. JavaScript has been disabled in your browser. Please enable JavaScript to experience the full functionality of our website.    Open Menu Close Menu About Us  Open Sub menu  Open Sub menu  Back  Who We Are What We Do Board of Directors Annual Reports Stakeholder Consultations Membership News Contact Us Latest News   Research shows Australians’ trust and support for egg industry continues to grow throughout pandemic · 65% of Australians expressed trust in the egg industry to act responsibly in the 2021 survey, up 9.   Inaccurate Claims made in relation to a study on egg and cholesterol consumption and mortality risk  In response to a new study published in PLOS Medicine on egg and cholesterol consumption and mortality1, Australian Eggs urges caution in how the study findings should be interpreted by Australian consumers and health care professionals. Recipes  Open Sub menu  Open Sub menu  Back  Breakfast Recipes Dinner Recipes Dessert Recipes Kid Friendly Recipes Lunch Recipes View All Recipes Meat Free Mondays Good Chef Bad Chef Featured Recipes   Best Zucchini Slice Preparation time  55 mins Serves  12 people   Ultra Moist & Easy Carrot Cake Preparation time  75 mins Serves  12 people Health & Nutrition  Open Sub menu  Open Sub menu  Back  Health Benefits of Eggs Nutrients & Vitamins Eggs For Children Meal Plans Eggs & Cholesterol View All Nutrition Choline in Eggs Eating Eggs During Pregnancy Healthcare Professionals Hub Hearts4Heart Partnership    Meal Plans  It can be easy to overlook the importance of our diet when we lead a busy and hectic lifestyle. These 7-day meal plans have been created by an Accredited Practising Dietitian based on meeting the recommendations outlined in the Australian Guide to Healthy Eating.    Eggs & Cholesterol  The latest Heart Foundation guidance puts no limit on how many eggs healthy people can eat each week. Eggs have a minimal effect on blood cholesterol levels and are encouraged as part of a heart healthy eating pattern. Egg Farming  Open Sub menu  Open Sub menu  Back  Free Range Eggs Cage Eggs Barn-Laid Eggs Organic Eggs Virtual Farm Tour How Eggs Are Made Australian Egg Industry View All Farming    Virtual Egg Industry Careers Tour     Hen Welfare & Cage Eggs  With more than $0.5 billion invested over the last 10 years to improve cage egg standards, Australia's current cage egg farms are a healthier and happier place for hens. Learn how our farmers care for their flock. Egg Tips  Open Sub menu  Open Sub menu  Back  Blog Handling and Storing Eggs View All Facts & Tips How To Crack An Egg How To Peel An Egg   8 High Protein Meal Ideas to Support Your Health Goals    10 Budget-Friendly Family Meals Under $5 a Serve Every time we go grocery shopping it seems like the prices are only getting higher. Families with many mouths to feed—each with their own tastes and quirks—probably feel the shock of these rising costs even more. Q&A For Farmers    Back  Key Links Tools Farmer Resources Training Farmer News Research Areas Food Safety Feeding & Nutrition Biosecurity & Flock Health  Environmental Sustainability Animal Welfare Human Health    Farm Sustainability Dashboard  The Farm Sustainability Dashboard has been designed to improve industry best practice and meet evolving community expectations. It has been created for business owners and is appropriate for farms of all sizes.  Account login  Search  Close search  Let’s help you find what you’re looking for      Search   Advanced search  Close search For Farmers    Back  Key Links Tools Farmer Resources Training Farmer News Research Areas Food Safety Feeding & Nutrition Biosecurity & Flock Health  Environmental Sustainability Animal Welfare Human Health    Farm Sustainability Dashboard  The Farm Sustainability Dashboard has been designed to improve industry best practice and meet evolving community expectations. It has been created for business owners and is appropriate for farms of all sizes. Weight Gain 7 Day Meal Plan   >   Weight Gain 7 Day Meal Plan  Home  Nutrition  Meal Plans  Weight Gain Meal Plan   Health Benefits of Eggs   Nutrients and Vitamins   Calories in Eggs   Eggs & Cholesterol   Vitamin D in Eggs   Eggs & Pregnancy   Eggs for Babies and Children   Egg Allergies   Choline in Eggs   Carbs in Eggs   Iron in Eggs   Egg Myths   Meal Plans   Lowering Cholesterol Meal Plan   Mediterranean Meal Plan   Weight Loss Meal Plan   High Vitamin D Meal Plan   Vegetarian Meal Plan   High Protein Meal Plan   Weight Gain Meal Plan   Pregnancy Meal Plan   PCOS Meal Plan   Diabetes Meal Plan   Gestational Diabetes Meal Plan   Gluten-Free Meal Plan   Low FODMAP Meal Plan   Low Carbohydrate Meal Plan   Weight Gain For The Elderly Meal Plan   Eye Health For Older Adults Meal Plan   Weight Management For Older Adults Meal Plan   General Health For Seniors Meal Plan   Arthritis Meal Plan   Healthy 7 Day Meal Plan For Clean Eating   High Fibre Meal Plan   Plant Based Meal Plan   Nutritional Information Panel   Eggs & Fat   Eggs & Omega 3   Eggs & Diabetes   Eggs & Older Adults   Eggs & Vegetarians   Egg Whites   Egg Yolks   Hearts4Heart Partnership  Weight Gain 7 Day Meal Plan Gaining weight can be just as challenging as losing weight. While the main focus is to increase energy and protein intakes, it is also important to maintain a healthy balanced diet without eating too many foods that might have high amounts of calories but little in the way of good nutrition. This 7-day weight gain meal plan provides one example of how to achieve a higher protein and higher calorie intake from healthy energy-giving foods such as lean meat, dairy, eggs, seeds and nuts, which will assist you to enjoy your food while working your way toward achieving your weight gain goals. Those with a medical issue should seek advice from a medical practitioner before changing their diet.Notes About This Meal Plan• This meal plan provides approximately 11,500kJ daily and is based on the average energy and nutrient requirements for weight gain in 18 – 65 year old adults who undertake light to moderate levels of activity. Your energy requirements vary depending on age, activity, health status, height and weight. For personalised advice, seek the services of an Accredited Practising Dietitian.• This meal plan provides at least the minimum number of serves from each of the core food groups as recommended in the Australian Guide to Healthy Eating* for adults (other than women over 51 years and men over 70 years who require additional milk, cheese or yoghurt).Want a version of this meal plan to print and use offline? Download the entire weight gain meal plan by clicking on this link.For easy access jump to:Day one Day two Day three Day four Day five Day six Day sevenDay One     BreakfastPeanut Butter on Wholegrain Toast: Toasted wholegrain bread+ 2 tbsp peanut butter. Drizzle with honey to taste. Serve with 1 hot chocolate, made with milk + 1 serve of fruit (eg. 1 medium pear or orange).Lunch Chicken and Pasta Salad: Cooked chicken + pasta + 1 cup leafy green vegetables (eg. spinach, rocket) + tomato + avocado + crumbled feta cheese + olive oil/vinegar dressing.DinnerLamb Chops and Vegetables: Lamb chop, trimmed & shallow fried in olive oil. Serve with sweet potato mash made with milk and olive oil + 2 cups cooked vegetables.Dessert/SupperFresh Fruit and Cheese Platter: Slice and serve a variety of fresh fruits in season and cheese.SnacksA handful of mixed nuts and/or seeds. Day Two     BreakfastChia Porridge with Fruit: 2 tbsp chia seeds + rolled oats + 1.5 cup full cream milk + 1 serve of fruit (eg. 1 medium banana or 6 dried prunes).LunchEgg, Cheese and Salad Wrap: 2 boiled & mashed eggs + 2 cheese slices + avocado + 1 cup salad vegetables (eg. lettuce, cucumber, carrot, capsicum) rolled up in tortilla bread (make 2 wraps) + 1 cup fruit juice.DinnerBaked Salmon, Cous Cous and Vegetables: Oven baked salmon fillet, sprinkled with sesame oil and sesame seeds + wholemeal cous cous + 2 cups cooked vegetables. Serve with hommus.Dessert/SupperFruit Salad Dessert: Fresh fruit salad with ice cream.SnacksA handful of mixed nuts and/or seeds. Fruit toast with butter and/or jam. Day Three     BreakfastSweet Potato Spanish Omelette (1 serve): Serve with 1 cafe latte or hot chocolate made with full cream milk.LunchLentil, Vegetables and Barley Soup: Lentils with 1 cup chopped vegetables (eg. carrot, pumpkin, celery, onion), vegetable stock and barley. Serve with dollop of natural yoghurt. + 1 serve of fruit.DinnerSpaghetti Bolognese: Lean mince with tomato, tomato puree, herbs & garlic served on spaghetti and sprinkled with cheese + 1 cup salad (eg. baby spinach, carrots, cucumber) with olive oil based dressing.Dessert/SupperFruit Smoothie: Made with 1 cup milk + 1 tbsp walnuts + fruit (eg. a small mango or berries).Snacks20g cheese + Canned tuna in oil on wholegrain crackers. Day Four     BreakfastWholegrain Cereal with Milk and Fruit: Wholegrain flaky cereal + full cream milk + 2 tbsp linseeds + 1 serve of fruit (eg. 6 dried apricot halves or 4 small plums).LunchChicken and Noodle Stir-fry: Sliced lean chicken + Hokkein noodles + 1 cup vegetables (eg. beans, capsicum, spinach, carrot) cooked in sesame oil + sweet soy sauce dressing. Sprinkle with sesame seeds.DinnerNasi Goreng Tray Bake (1 serve): Serve with 2 cup mixed salad vegetables.Dessert/SupperFruit Pop: Made with frozen fruits (eg. bananas or mangos) with Greek yoghurt.Snacks1 serve of fruit (eg. 5 prunes or 1 cup fresh fruit salad). 1 cup hot chocolate made with full cream milk. Day Five     BreakfastPoached Eggs with Sauteed Field Mushroom and Avocado (1 serve): Serve with 1 cafe latte or hot chocolate made with full cream milk.LunchFish and Chips: Dip fish fillets in flour, egg then breadcrumbs and shallow fry in canola oil. Serve with homemade thick potato chunky chips, lemon wedges and 2 cups mixed salad vegetables with olive oil dressing. + 1 serve of fruit.DinnerMango Chicken and 